README.md, before:

# Computational Physics

This app is work-in-progress. It's intended to model electromagnetic behavior. Initially we implemented [FDTD][1], but are now working on [FEEC][2] too. These methods are not limited to electromagnetic modeling though, so we might also model other things as well.

# TODO

 - make Renderer immutable:
  - this is so that it can be shared between multiple scenes
  - at least the draw command buffer needs to be stored in the Scene. maybe the instance buffer as well.
 - fix transparency:
  - when overlapping: order-independent transparency?
  - we can't apply gamma correction / tone map in the pbr shader because the values are later alpha-blended. we would need to do tone map / gamma in a separate render pass.
 - control UI for solver:
  - share a small struct (with CondVar) to control and read stats from the solver thread.
  - i think we could even replace the solver instance if the simulation volume changes, although this was not intended.
 - hierarchy:
  - fix hierarchy when deleting a parent
 - staging belt:
  - read (gpu to host)
 - read-only properties UI
 - load/save files (whole scene)
 - limit how often a running solver projects into textures. done, but needs to be in config somewhere
 - tree view context menu
 - spatial queries: SpatialQuery trait. Like hecs::Query, but also knows how to find/filter entities from the bvh.
 - make simulation volume an entity (visible via edges?)
 - PRs for `egui_ltreeview`
 - fdtd: compress material buffer:
  - most points in the lattice contain the same material values
  - turn the current buffer into a buffer that only contains indices to a second buffer that holds the actual data
  - we could then also store the original properties (eps, mu, etc.) for rendering.
 - manipulating objects's isometry in scene view
 - pass more config to properties_ui for floats for proper formatting
 - keybindings
 - 2D scene view
 - Point lights: Not properly implemented right now, as we only need a point light colocated with the camera, for which we don't need any information that the shader already has.
 - use pipeline cache (persistent)
 - spatial: add tags whether an entity supports a certain spatial query. then in the query methods we can filter by that.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-difference_time-domain_method
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite_element_exterior_calculus

Commit message:

wip: migrated transform/spatial to bevy_ecs

README.md, after:

# Computational Physics

This app is work-in-progress. It's intended to model electromagnetic behavior. Initially we implemented [FDTD][1], but are now working on [FEEC][2] too. These methods are not limited to electromagnetic modeling though, so we might also model other things as well.

# TODO

 - use bevy-ecs
  - reflect feature seems to work with older version of wgpu-types
 - use types from nonmax crate in half-edge graph and maybe fdtd impl?
 - fix transparency:
  - when overlapping: order-independent transparency?
  - we can't apply gamma correction / tone map in the pbr shader because the values are later alpha-blended. we would need to do tone map / gamma in a separate render pass.
 - control UI for solver:
  - share a small struct (with CondVar) to control and read stats from the solver thread.
  - i think we could even replace the solver instance if the simulation volume changes, although this was not intended.
 - hierarchy:
  - fix hierarchy when deleting a parent
 - staging belt:
  - read (gpu to host)
 - read-only properties UI
 - load/save files (whole scene)
 - limit how often a running solver projects into textures. done, but needs to be in config somewhere
 - tree view context menu
 - spatial queries: SpatialQuery trait. Like hecs::Query, but also knows how to find/filter entities from the bvh.
 - make simulation volume an entity (visible via edges?)
 - PRs for `egui_ltreeview`
 - fdtd: compress material buffer:
  - most points in the lattice contain the same material values
  - turn the current buffer into a buffer that only contains indices to a second buffer that holds the actual data
  - we could then also store the original properties (eps, mu, etc.) for rendering.
 - manipulating objects's isometry in scene view
 - pass more config to properties_ui for floats for proper formatting
 - keybindings
 - 2D scene view
 - Point lights: Not properly implemented right now, as we only need a point light colocated with the camera, for which we don't need any information that the shader already has.
 - use pipeline cache (persistent)
 - spatial: add tags whether an entity supports a certain spatial query. then in the query methods we can filter by that.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-difference_time-domain_method
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite_element_exterior_calculus
